.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Franco Fichtner <franco@opnsense.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 18, 2022
.Dt CONFIGCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm configctl
.Nd Backend daemon configuration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl deq
.Op Fl m Sq Ar command ...
.Op Fl t Ar threshold
.Op Fl w Ar wait
.Op Ar command ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility will dispatch backend commands to the configuration daemon.
The command
.Sq Ar configd actions
will return a list of all available actions to perform.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl m Sq Ar command ..." -offset indent
.It Fl d
Detach the execution of the command and return immediately.
.It Fl e
Use as event handler to execute command on receiving input.
.It Fl m Sq Ar command ...
Execute multiple commands specified by multiple uses of this option.
.It Fl q
Run quietly by muting standard output.
.It Fl t Ar threshold
Wait specified amount of
.Ar threshold
seconds between events to execute commands to combine input
into single events.
The option accepts floating point numbers.
.It Fl w Ar wait
Wait specified amount of
.Ar wait
seconds for socket to become available.
The option accepts integer numbers.
The default is not to wait for the socket.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /var/run/configd.socket
The socket used to connect to the daemon.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh AUTHORS
.An \&Ad Schellevis Aq Mt ad@opnsense.org
