.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Franco Fichtner <franco@opnsense.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 19, 2018
.Dt OPNSENSE-INSTALLER 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm opnsense-installer
.Nd OPNsense installer utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility will launch the graphical installation process.
The installation is driven by a frontend connected to the backend
process via local socket.
.Pp
The purpose of the installer is to install the system on a target
disk using several options like UFS, ZFS, GEOM mirror, GPT, MBR, etc.
It may also carry out tasks such as configuration import or password
recovery.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr opnsense-importer 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility operates the historical
.Nm bsdinstaller ,
which first appeared in
.Dx .
Both projects no longer use these programs.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Scott Ullrich Aq Mt sullrich@gmail.com
