.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Franco Fichtner <franco@opnsense.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 9, 2021
.Dt OPNSENSE-VERSION 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm opnsense-version
.Nd OPNsense version utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl AaefHiNnsVvw
.Op Ar package
.Nm
.Fl c
.Op Ar package
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility emits build-time package metadata, e.g. version numbers
and product-related information for branding capabilities.
.Pp
Callers use this metadata to configure the system, return user
information or to construct links for firmware upgrades using
.Xr opnsense-update 8 .
It is similar to
.Xr opnsense-verify 8 Ap s
.Sq Fl a
parameter, but not intended to handle operating system information.
.Pp
The default package is assumed to be
.Ar core ,
unless another package has been specificed.
Other packages can be
.Ar base ,
.Ar kernel ,
or plugin names.
.Pp
Multiple options can be specified to build a custom version string
when that information is available.
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl a" -offset indent
.It Fl A
Return the system architecture string.
.It Fl a
Return the firmware ABI string.
.It Fl c
Exit successfully if the package exists.
Otherwise, exit with an error.
.It Fl e
Return the product contact e-mail address.
.It Fl f
Return the cryptography flavour.
The correct flavour will be read from the installed OpenSSL
binary, or from package metadata if the binary could
not be found.
.It Fl H
Return the package commit hash.
.It Fl i
Return the package nickname.
.It Fl N
Return the product name.
.It Fl n
Return the package name.
.It Fl s
Return the accumulated file size of the package.
.It Fl V
Return the package series.
.It Fl v
Return the package version.
.It Fl w
Return the product version website.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /usr/local/opnsense/version
The version metadata directory of OPNsense packages.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr opnsense-update 8 ,
.Xr opnsense-verify 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in OPNsense 18.7.4.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Franco Fichtner Aq Mt franco@opnsense.org
